It hit us out of nowhere, everyone was trying to keep their act together, but in reality there was panic all around him. He was a clown that had just got to the island two weeks ago. He was here to surf, but now it all changed. He could still remember when he arrived, he came without knowledge and was lucky enough to see the big soup kitchen in the huge hall at the pier. It must have been there communal hall because it fit 20 thousand people, there were tables in the middle and loud chatter echoed through the hall. K, our traveller had not met anyone and just stumbled in there following after the bulk of hungry people. The food, dipped the place in haze of sweet tomato and rosmary, huge pots of soup were given out at the counters close to the walls. 
K was waiting in line, like everyone else, two punks were right infront, talking agrevated. Finally one started a big rant:
"We were alone, couple years ago, now look what happend. It used to be that only fucked up people, the scum of society, the men that didn't want to play our pointless game of goverments, came to the soup kitchen. But now look at this, everyone has become so poor, they come here out of necessity now. There used to be a spirit of change but these people anxiously waiting in line, for them it is just another chore to get the food they need. For them these are wasted minuites, a loss of time in an economics that punishes the poor. For me this place was always, the beginning of the new, to come together under the same circumstances, to agree without having to say it, that the system is shit. To just sit, with your true peers, the class that you belong to, that is what it was. Now its just the feeding of work animals, that dont even understand what they are working for."
His friend was just wrapping arms aroung his shoulders, because he kind of agreed and had nothing to ad.
K was interessted he had not heard anyone talk so passionally about this island. He was new here, interessted in this place, where he was a total outsider, not nowing the rules and just slowly realising the conventions. As a clown you need to know these things, humor lies on the boarder of realitly and customs or so he thought. This was why he tried, while waiting, to get the attention of the two punks. He stutter stepped but it was so loud and they didn't fear his fall, he leaned into them but they just gently guided him back to his stance, he faked a fall but they just stepped aside and keept him up holding his arms, out of habit they helped, with all of the drunk people around falling was nothing rare, they did their duty without ever seeing him,thought K. He had given up and just waited for his soup. Two full pours with the big spoon and then he moved on. But the two punks had waited for him and without saying a word guided him to a free standing table.
What can I tell you about this evening with the two punks? For K this was the beginning of his life on the island, he was not a tourist that evening, he was taking part in the lives of people rooted in this place and that made him connect. He had made friends. Through the stories, the two punks gave him a window of sort into the lifes of the people. They told him about the council that was governing their little town of fishers and farmes right on the coast. He learned that the harbour supplies all the imports to the whole island but the workers are poor, many of them here. The mountain he had seen from the ship he arrived in, was the place where the powerful and the smart live together, they made an unholy alliance to keep their power through information politics.  Cocoscity, the biggest place on this island, on the other hand, was a cultural melting place, home of games, art and spam. The Cocospeople tried for years now, to take the power away from the people living on the mountain, ice people was what the punks called them. They, the punks, told him all this, while always implying that their own place Tomatopia, this little town, was the place where the actual power lies. This feeling stayed in K's mind for the following days, these days were the last before the first wave hit them. Nothing was going to be the same, a virus had arrived and soon the people got scared, goverments issued responses and the quarantine began. An event like the soup kitchen with 20 thousand people unthinkable now. But the feeling still stayed, maybe K thought, this virus will be the start of something new. Maybe all of the people staying at home, slowly realising, might lead to a movement, a wave, not in the literal sense just in how they think.  
